uh welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and event yet check out my weekly emails
where I'm sharing actionable BT
marketing and website tips useful get it
goodies podcasts and more you can give
it a shot over at businessgrowth dot
email
so join me today I've got Andrew Davies
Andrew's a CMO over at paddle Andrew a
warm welcome sir how are we doing
thank you very very much yes not so warm
because I'm Outdoors but otherwise it's
good to be on this call thank you good
man I think this is uh probably only one
of the second or third people out of
about 310 shows that's been outside so
fair play to you sir braving the the
cool UK winter as we almost approach
spring but we can see it if you're
watching on video some nice blue
background so good to have you here and
we're gonna be chatting exactly how
everyone tuning in can build out their
own GTM go to market strategy something
we haven't talked about on the show for
a while so looking forward to diving in
as we rarely do Andrew let's not be
about the bush first and foremost
why is a go to market strategy why is it
so important
so if there's lots of talk about product
Market fit making sure that you've got a
product that matches the needs and
expectations of a small group of
customers to start with but building a
software company is easier than ever
before the platforms you sit on top of
the infrastructure you sit on top of and
that allows you to build that minimum
viable product fast and test it fast
in a world where you know everyone can
do that or a lot of people can build
software companies the ability to
distribute the ability to go to market
becomes a competitive differentiator in
a world where anybody can load up open
open apis uh open AIS apis and build an
AI company on top of chat GPT suddenly
it's how you take that to Market how you
make sure it actually gets distributed
to the people who need it and so a go to
market strategy is the set of channels
and motions and strategy behind how you
go meet that market and how you win
revenue from them sustainably yeah yeah
it makes sense and we'll dive in shortly
to your four-step process that you're
going to share with us in the audience
in a bit but before we do are there any
common mistakes that you see especially
in the B2B or the software World Andrew
that people tend to make when it comes
to building out their GTM strategy
so I've been in B2B marketing for a long
time at different uh sizes and scales of
business
um including my own one that we built
from kind of first dollar Revenue up to
you know hundreds of millions of Revenue
when we got Acquired and I think one of
the biggest mistakes is thinking that
marketing can be a one-trick pony the
problem with my with any form of
marketing particularly if we look at the
SAS context of B2B marketing context
marketing as a period is a process of
reaching a ceiling through your existing
tactic and then having to find new ways
of breaking through that ceiling with a
different Channel a different approach a
different message and so the process of
experimentation in marketing as you
scale is to find ceilings before they
hit you and find a way around them to
find that next ceiling so it might be
that you know cadences of sdr's
outreaching to Target accounts is the
first thing that helps you but that's
gonna that's gonna stop in its efficacy
at some point in time you need to make
sure you're building a broader bench of
tactics before that causes you to stop
growing
I like that referencing ceilings and for
anyone that perhaps doesn't understand
that term what are we saying exactly
when we're saying a ceiling
yeah so let's just take a few different
tactics so if you are trying to go to
market through an inbound strategy and
SEO is one of your tactics there will be
a finite volume of people searching for
those Search terms and when you've
dominated those results you've hit a
ceiling you're not going to get any more
customers other than the new incremental
people searching at that volume
um the same is you know perhaps a
ceiling of competition for certain terms
that you're bidding on the ceiling might
be the efficacy of investing in you know
sdrs sales development reps to build
outbound scripts or dial into customers
um you know it could be brand plays
where the efficacy of investing in video
content or show content or you know in
events it hits a ceiling where you've
you've reached the audience that you can
you can reach through that method yeah
yeah it makes sense so essentially
hitting a cap like what is the limit of
I suppose like you mentioned their
demand that you could capture whether
that's organic search or Google ads paid
search or likewise what your addressable
Market can be hit with outbound sales
cold calling code email Etc which uh we
can dig into it a bit when we get into
tactics sure so looking forward to that
yeah go ahead
well I think there's there's two things
that are really important that sit under
the skin of those ceilings
um the first one is that as you scale
you might find some things that do work
for a longer period of time than others
and they do work at a higher scale than
others and so in deciding which ceilings
are there it's it's trying to find
things that are going to be able to
scale you through tens or hundreds of
millions of Revenue
um and that will be a broader bunch of
tactics but there might be some things
you know in in an outbound type sales
motion building field sales teams
usually does get you to a high degree of
scale it's quite a high ceiling the
other thing that's really important here
is as you try different tactics and you
build a broader bench of things you're
doing to get a market
consistency across those becomes really
important when you try a few different
things and experimenting actually they
don't need to be that consistent because
they're often seen in isolation by your
target market you're trying a bit of SEO
you're trying a bit of PPC you're trying
a bit of outbound as you get to a point
of scale you've got to end up then
making sure you build build a brand to
demand engine where all of your messages
to your constituencies all of the that
if you're preaching in the marketplace
as well as the demand capture you're
doing is lining up to the same company
narrative so that people can actually
move down your funnel themselves without
that being something you've got to go
and spend money on
um
do you find
from your experience do you find there's
like a dollar cap where it gets to that
tricky Point I.E
you can do the the well-known plays
whether that is building an outbound
team of sdrs capturing some Demand with
SEO capturing some Demand with paid
search but do you find that comes to
transition Point I.E we hit x million
per year then we need to focus on really
building our brand creating new demand
in the market making people that aren't
even solution aware that they need our
offer but building that trust so when
they do with a kind of go-to company
um yes but it it's a kind of it depends
on every company their Market size who
they're going after what the competition
looks like what the what the deal value
looks like so there's a couple ways I
think about this the first one is
actually it's based on Capital you've
got available because if you've only got
a very limited amount of capital to
invest clearly for survival you'll be
focusing almost all of that within this
quarter next quarter demand generation
and demand capture you won't be spending
much on long-term brand but if you have
access to Greater capital or you're able
to take a longer term perspective
it is and it proves that in the data but
it's my fundamental belief that invest
that quality investments in brand reduce
customer acquisition cost
eternally right if you can invest in a
very strong position very strong
Affinity with your Market you're thereby
reducing the cost of acquisition as you
go in quarter for every quarter there
and out and so one of the challenges
with making too much of your Investments
within this quarter next quarter on
demand capture is that you pay the price
in higher CAC every quarter on out so
that's what the balance is and that
comes down to how much Capital you've
got available how confident your company
and board is how much you feel that
confidence on product Market fit and
therefore can invest out of cycle
um and it also depends on the deal cycle
of the customers and how long it takes
to buy your product
got it makes sense so let's jump into
some of the tactics on how we can
actually build out a GTM go to market
strategy
um first and foremost
what's what is what's one of the first
steps like if you're if you're building
out a GTM if you're a startup or you're
a new business like what are the first
considerations
so it sounds really obvious but you've
got to start with your customer and
you've got to start with the ideal
customer definition the ICP we talk
about the ideal customer profile now
everybody thinks they're focused
um now I thought I was focused in my
first business we had a B2B
personalization SAS business
um we thought we were focused and I can
remember the time we went on a on a
company off-site a company retreat with
our management team and we realized that
we were selling the same kind of product
to a bunch of different types of clients
to solve different types of problems and
that was really hurting us because we
were probably only 50 staff at that
point and therefore our product roadmap
was being led by different types of
customers the kind of sales people were
hiring were depending on their
background for different types of
customers the value proposition and the
customer success process we were running
was different for different types of
customers and so we weren't focused at
all and so you know we went through the
process of defining the ideal one of our
customers we lost customers as a result
who didn't fit it we lost staff as a
result who actually didn't support that
decision but we then went yeah so we
defined enterprise Enterprise Tech as
our ICP people who were I think over 2
000 staff largely us-based Enterprise
Hardware or software and as a result of
that decision we closed IBM we closed
sap we closed uh Intel
um we you know the Salesforce The Who's
Who and the Enterprise Tech Zoo came on
board as customers because we were able
to put all of our wood behind the arrow
of going after that one ideal customer
profile and there's there's a huge
amount of of kind of acceleration that
comes into your business when everybody
knows very explicitly who you're going
after and why so that first point I
think is understanding that customer
understanding them in great depth we we
had a spreadsheet where we had 17
different criteria on every company we
were going after and if you didn't tick
yes to every one of those 17 criteria we
wouldn't spend any dollars on servicing
you or trying to meet you in our
marketing because you didn't match our
Target account list and so that's the
level of specificity I think it's really
important to get in play as you build
confidence over that ICP so you can make
sure all your Investments are focused on
the right type of business yeah yeah
yeah for um for companies that are
perhaps at a earlier stage where they're
a revenue is key perhaps they've had
limited funding or they're bootstrapped
even yep can you can you be that choosy
or do you have something what comes in
in an early stage
um and you know CFOs might not want to
agree with this
um in an early stage I think the
learning you get from your first
customers is probably more valuable than
the revenue you get from them and so I
don't think you should be too choosy
because that's the process of learning
who matches your who is your ideal
customers how much of a success they
make out of out of your product it's the
value that they can play back to you
um I do see one one kind of strategy
being used increasingly frequently in
funded um SAS businesses is that they
are using account based marketing ABM as
a process of Ideal customer choosing so
they'll run an ABM campaign into two or
three different market segments as a way
of getting early warning signs on which
one of those are more likely to be their
ideal customer
okay okay
um and in terms of actually mapping out
an ICP profile we've had episodes on
this on the past and past guests have
said things like find out which
customers you enjoy working with which
you can bring the most value to which
problems you can fix which are the most
profitable
um all those key points would you say
it's much of a muchness or would you say
there's any other kind of really
important points when it comes to
actually deciding who is the best fit
client you want to go after all guns
blazing
yeah so I think all of those are good
questions you know who can we reach who
gets the most value from us who can we
take the most value off
um where there's least competition those
would all be kind of key indicators
um I think the more interesting question
for Founders and and go to market
leaders is often what should that size
of Market be and this is where the
question of focus comes in because it's
too easy to think that you want it to be
big especially if you've got investors
they want to know there's a billion
dollar market opportunity and actually I
would much rather
know in depth about a very small Market
opportunity where I know their
fingerprint I know everything about them
I know their their dog's name and I know
how to serve them then know a little bit
about a very wide market and so the kind
of rule of thumb I use and I think it
probably comes from Jeffrey Moore's book
Crossing the chasm the old Tome about go
to market
um is that a market has to be you know
it has to be big enough to matter
um but it has to be small enough for you
to win and so the rule of thumb early
stage I think is over the next 18 months
could we genuinely win more than 50 of
this Market
and if if you couldn't then it's
probably too big and you haven't defined
it close enough
I like that that's a new one for me
all right let's let's Push To The Next
Step we've talked about idle client
profile what let's say we've determined
that for now what comes next
so I'm not sure any of these stages kind
of come sequentially there are something
we're always iterating on
um but the next thing to think about is
your go-to-market fit so you've got some
form of Ideal customer definition you've
got some form of hypothesis about who
you're trying to serve the type of
customer in terms of the company they
work for the type of persona you're
selling into
um now it's about how do we reach them
so there are you know four or five main
approaches that are pretty well
documented
um with benchmarks around them
um which would be a sales LED approach
which is where you're hiring sales
development reps and sales reps and
you're going after usually a named
account list and uh you know marketing
takes a a lesser role because it's all
about getting the message right in the
value prop right as you go and confront
people
um with your proposition the second one
will be marketing lead which is where
you know you have that inbound strategy
that HubSpot and others were big
proponents of where you do have sales
reps but they're receiving inbound
interest that's coming in Via your
marketing channels and then qualifying
that and then selling to it
um thirdly you'd have what's described
as product-led growth or product LED go
to market which is where your product is
the lens by which you see customer
acquisition retention and expansion
um and you know they're fantastic
examples that all over the shop
including you know the figures and the
mirrors and many tools we'll be using
where we've adopted it for free often or
in some form of freemium basis and then
it's spread without within organization
um and then there's Channel LED
um which you know sometimes is seen as a
little bit old school
um but many companies are using it it's
a great effect now where you've got
Channel Partners who are either
embedding your proposition your your
software your your product within theirs
or our resellers of your product
um and you know many technology agency
Partnerships work in that way so those
would be the four key there are other
ones as well but those are the four ways
of reaching your market and as I said
there are good benchmarks there are good
playbooks around each one of them and so
it's getting an understanding on which
one of those fits best how does your
customer buy and and how does your value
proposition get best described so that
it can be bought
let me give you a scenario Andrew
let's say we've got a tech company B2B
tech let's say it's a SAS company let's
say we've got a bit of funding so maybe
we've had I don't know a round of a
million or so funding in the bank and
we have a market that's got actual
demand so we're not a new category we're
a new offer but there is we're in an
established category I.E people know our
solution exists but they might not know
our brand yep what do you think is the
best initial route to Market in that
scenario yep so one of the one of the
ways of answering that will be to think
about time frame and patience and
capital
um because if the players in that market
are largely sales LED taking that more
old-school approach of selling software
via salespeople probably the most
strategically smart thing to do is to
spend the time and capital in investing
in a product-led approach because it's
very different it's very difficult to
defend against that as a large
Enterprise so if you are paying bad
carrying sales reps to go out and go to
events and sit on Zoom calls and travel
to cities to sell what you're what
you're offering and a competitor comes
in with a similar value prop and you are
able to try it for free without any
sales calls whatsoever and then upsell
to you know a couple of you know 100 a
month or whatever in order to you know
to start using all the Full Features it
is incredibly difficult to defend
against that as an incumbent so it's
strategically very is what many many
companies are attacking incumbent
Industries with but your question was
was less about what would be good over
time it was what would be the first
thing to try and often honestly the
first thing to try is that sales LED
approach because that's how you get
answers very very quickly so getting
into a sales conversation even if that
isn't how you want to scale getting into
a customer Discovery conversation
doesn't even have to be a sales
conversation of showing them what you've
got asking them how they'd use it asking
them how they use how they solve that
problem currently and what they pay for
it is usually a very very quick feedback
loop in the very early stages
it's so true
um like it it is an old Playbook but
it's still played very much I feel
um that's why I wanted to get your
opinion on it really
um in terms of like the predictable
Revenue model set up a software company
B2B get a team of sdrs go to market just
seems to be the play but do you think
there's any flaws in that though
um do you think companies especially if
need to be sash do you think they over
invest in outbound
because I I for one certainly think a
lot of companies do before they even
capture demand that's out there to be
caught inbound obviously I'm going to
say that because I work every day of
websites and SEO paid search but so I am
biased I don't defend that but I know
the outbound motion too
yeah so
I think there is a huge amount of Market
commentary about the rise of product-led
growth and so I you know although many
most companies would still in the in the
SAS space be using sales lead as their
first go to market
um I do think there is a huge amount of
of capital chasing down opportunities
where they are willing to be more
patient to build a really quality
product so if I was starting a SAS
business today actually I would be using
sales lead as a process of testing the
proposition but I'd be wanting to rest
on building a product-led route to
Market because there's a bunch of um
there's a bunch of research around this
some of it conflicts
um but usually the revenue per employer
or employee is higher in a product-led
motion normally the customer acquisition
cost is lower in a product-led motion
and certainly the ability to build an
audience around free versions of your
product which you can then upsell to is
greater
um and so I think it's a stronger
business model over time
um but it has to be used in the right
way so you know if I was doing it right
now and setting up our business right
now I'd want to go for that product lab
business what what I've got a um I raise
money from notion Capital based up in
London they invest in SAS businesses
across Europe and echasso one of the
when the Investment Partners there was
we were talking about product-led growth
and she exclusively invests in product
LED companies
and one of the reasons she does that is
because she feels she can get a much
better read of their value proposition
because it's all open you can go and try
the product and her comment to me was
something like you know any founder
worth assault uh or her salt can go to
market and you know get a million of ARR
by being a good salesperson even if
those companies never use the product or
get value from it and I want to invest
in this is her words I want to invest in
companies where there's there's massive
transformational value in the usage of
the product therefore I only want to bet
on products I can see understand see the
usage data on rather than it be reliant
on a couple of very good founder sales
people so I think you know that'll be
one thing that I do believe the the
scrutiny that the customers give and the
market gives on something that is
available for them to try immediately
usually gives a better product
experience overall
is that's interesting point isn't being
plg product like growth though so if you
start with a freemium trial is that not
a high risk if you've only got a bit of
funding because we know that only a
small percentage of those people that
take that free trial I don't know what's
is there like a typical amount is it
like five percent that convert into
paying customers I don't know what the
industry standard is something like that
yeah
isn't that like really risky especially
if you're trying to convince a board of
investors that might not be on the same
page
um and the rest of you may be your
founding team whoever it is and say look
five percent of these customers might
turn into paying customers let's let's
go full steam ahead yeah wholeheartedly
and I'm not a purist on this um it will
depend on your circumstance your backers
your board what you're selling you know
some complicated value propositions they
need a sales rep to talk it through with
someone for them to understand it if
you're selling into a buying committee
it's tough for a for multiple people on
a buying committee to buy a product-led
business because no one's there to
juggle the conversations and express
different types of value to different
people
um so yeah I I don't think it's a
one-size-fits-all I do think that there
are significant strengths um to prod a
lead in the go to market but you
definitely usually need more capital and
you need more time
do you think most the majority of SAS
businesses will be product LED in say
the next five ten years
um I mean you know the business that I'm
CMO of paddle most of its clients 3000
or so are product LED businesses
um so we help them resolve a bunch of
those problems so I'm a little bit
biased in this in this regard
um but we are seeing kind of entrance
into that go to market model from a few
places we are seeing businesses that are
starting as product LED from the very
beginning because that's their process
of getting early adopters even if
they're not paying and testing a product
and then going to Market that route
we're also seeing large larger
businesses want to go down market for
competitive reasons they're wanting to
defend against people who are launching
product LED businesses and therefore are
launching productline experiments
alongside large sales teams to try and
pick up that early market and then the
other form of going down Market is to
serve smaller businesses perhaps you
know it doesn't you can't afford a sales
rep when you're selling a 10K deal value
so if you want to sell the smaller
businesses you've got to have a
different Market motion marketing lead
or product LED or Channel LED in order
to afford it hmm understood understood I
yeah in terms of being sales LED I
certainly like the idea of starting
those initial conversations
understanding what what prospects think
about the offer understanding the
problems that they're facing and really
getting that live feedback loop
um that's so important in marketing
business in general
um in terms of if you do go for more of
a marketing-led route are there channels
that you typically tend to recommend for
say B2B SAS B2B tech companies yeah I
mean this would be your classic inbound
funnel where you're doing some form of
of content
um and you know you're running some form
of funnel where people can can qualify
themselves in and score themselves
against you know be propensity to buy
and then you're reaching out to them
with some form of inside sales to
convert them
um you know I I think there's a few
things that are important to note here
firstly each of these approaches has a
rough kind of average deal size range
that it can support and a marketing you
know LED approach can support a smaller
deal size and a Salesman approach
because you don't have expensive
commission sales people trying to close
each deal
um and so that's that's one you know
angle the other part of a marketing uh
marketing LED go to market is often you
end up building lead magnets or tools
that are separate or or kind of
alongside your core product value
proposition think website radar from
HubSpot in the early days
in order to get those lead lists and get
that inbound attention for you then to
try and convert into into into customers
yeah yeah that's that's all true
um Channel LED we've not talked about
that much on uh on the show at all
really
um I know you mentioned it's kind of
resellers that perhaps embedded and
using your offer or partners that are
reselling
um is that something that most software
companies can get involved in or tech
companies can get involved or is it
quite limited from your experience
because I've not had a lot of Hands-On
experience with that
yeah so if you can do it well in scale
it can be incredibly helpful to your
your your p l because you don't end up
having to fund what can be a very
expensive sales ad motion someone else
funds that for you so you're basically
taking less margin and giving away a
bunch of sales commission in effect to
an external partner who's doing that
um and you know the kind of big scaled
examples of this would be things like
marketing service providers where they'd
be providing Consulting and
implementation and configuration
services on top of email installs and
CRM installs and other forms of data
transformation
um but then you have loads of examples
of this happening in in smaller ways too
A friend of mine run marketing at a
creative tools company and you know they
would build you know the kind of Adobe
After Effects competitors for you know
very very um top-end Film Production and
most of their go to market was via
Channel Partners who were doing other
elements of that value chain
um but just didn't do the software piece
and all they go to market was funded
um by these Channel Partners who had
sponsored the events and invited along
or sponsor the the conferences and
invite them along so the key here is are
your interests entirely aligned with a
channel partner and finding someone
where you're not trying to change their
business model you're not trying to
change how they go to market you're just
bringing them extra Revenue in form of a
referral commission or similar if you
can find those people and you're
thoroughly aligned then I'll press go on
it the trouble is finding them can be a
bit like death by a thousand cocktails
they're spending a lot of time
understanding different people's
businesses and value chains before you
really know
um whether they are aligned with you or
not yeah yeah yeah I mean we've just
started um like our own business we just
started trying to find build out our
referral Partners which is a bit
different I believe more complementary
companies that are perhaps they might
get interest or they might have
requirements for what we do and we might
have requirements what they do we don't
do it in-house so that kind of thing is
that a bit different
yeah but if you if you can make that if
you can make that scale and find a bunch
of companies that have that same partner
customer the ideal partner profile then
you can scale that route to Market to
give you kind of an example that didn't
work at idio we tried to sell our
personalization technology via marketing
agencies in London and I went and had
conversations with all of them and they
absolutely loved what we did and we were
including a bunch of big pictures and I
remember a top agency I won't name them
um including us in a pitch for them to
win the mini account the car company and
we were super excited by this until I
found I didn't hear from them for two
months Doug and found they've won the
account and never come back to us
because we were just being used as pitch
candy we were something really clever
and really interesting that was helpful
to them show their Innovation but it was
just against their core business model
for a whole bunch of their Ad Agency
Revenue to go out the door on a license
for a technology product to support some
of what they were offering and so our
interests were just misaligned and so
that's what I mean about the alignment
you've got to make sure that you know
the partnership you've built helps both
is equally yeah Sound Advice all right
that's that's the roots to Market
what have we what have we got up next
so we've got a few things we can I know
we don't have too much time we can
quickly touch with them and you can dig
wherever you think it's useful
um firstly you know then we come to
messaging this is something that I love
to talk about could talk about all day
long
um do you really have a message that
matters I've uh you know in my career
alongside a couple of the companies I've
been working with I've had the privilege
of being an advisor um for probably 15
or 20 SAS businesses mostly UK based B2B
in their kind of series B series C go to
market and
often the least optimized piece of their
demand generation engine has been their
message they're trying campaigns and
they're trying new forms of PPC and try
new forms of scoring and trying new
tactics and channels but actually the
core message is what's letting them down
and so what I mean by this is do you
have an overarching narrative for the
business that is understandable
something that reframes in the
customer's mind what you do and the
problems they face and aligns kind of
the solution you offer in a way that
gives them massive value you we can talk
about some examples of that if it's
useful and then are you able to break
that down into you know the unfair
advantage that you carry in your value
proposition so that every touch point
that you have with the prospect is
reaffirming that message that
overarching narrative while describing
your products unique value proposition
so it's about positioning what is the
collective set of options they have your
differentiation within that Collective
set how are you better and unique
um and then also this this reframe that
you're trying to get the customer to
have if they look at the problem from
your lens then you're the natural
solution and so this is a battlefield
for the mind right this is helping them
see things in the way you see things
um and your differentiation is a
differentiating point of view on the
future
um so yeah the message is the next thing
that really does need to be optimized
yeah I like this conversation I'm much
like you I could talk about this stuff
all day now in terms of differentiation
ah chances are if you know if you're in
a market that's
you're competing I don't know let's say
you're in the CRM space there's tons and
tons and tons of CRM for example do you
really have to be super different if
you're coming into a mature sector I.E
doesn't have to be a vastly different
feature there's have to be for a new uh
niche in terms of the industry that you
serve or do you have to have some brand
new problem that you're fixing do you
have to have that to be to differentiate
yourself is that crucial when it comes
to both positioning messaging and go to
market
I think it depends on whether you want
an outsized outcome or not and if you do
then yes I do think it's essential
um you know the Core Essence of strategy
is choices and saying no to some things
and yes to things and the question that
sits behind that is where do we play and
why do we win and I think answering
those questions in a differentiated way
does set your entire team up for success
and so you know okay let's take another
Big Industry so we sold our business to
a a company that was a big CMS so big
content management system
and then we went to bought a couple of
other businesses including optimizely so
we're in a very
um old space Enterprise content
management system Enterprise Commerce
management but we had a bunch of
capabilities through Acquisitions
including my business that were
interesting around personalization
Dynamic content experimentation and a b
testing and so our where we play and why
we win was that yes we could do massive
you know International brands in terms
of their full you know e-commerce
platform and content management system
but our heartbeat was one of
experimentation and having
experimentation products at the core of
that CMS meant that we were
differentiated in the market because you
know that classic misattributed phrase
for Darwin
um is not the strongest or the fastest
that survive it's those that are most
responsive and adaptable to change and
in a market where covert suddenly hit
after we did that acquisition and then
the market changed dramatically suddenly
being responsive and being able to roll
out new versions of your copy and
testing which ones worked and rolling
out new digital experiences in different
languages it was the experimentation of
personalization that became the
differentiation around the Enterprise
content management which is a very
boring incumbent industry so yes I do
think it's essential and I do think it's
something you've got to stop and ask
yourself as a senior leader in a
business so that you can arm your teams
with that differentiation they'll help
them win
yeah yeah and you mentioned at the start
you were talking about things like when
it comes to messaging it often falls
short when you're actually explaining or
sharing what you do problems that your
prospects might face and and where you
stand different
um do you think there's when it comes to
message
what are your thoughts on where many
companies get this wrong and what they
should do instead
um so I like building off Frameworks
here there are lots of good Frameworks
that you can use to walk through your
own journey of what your message should
be Andy Raskin with his kind of he calls
it you know the ultimate sales deck
framework
um which is all about kind of setting
this ideal future for the customer where
they should be making sure they're a
hero on their Journey bit of the hero's
journey kind of framework in there too
um if we if we think about Challenger
sale another framework that talks about
the reframe that you you go in and you
try and build trust with someone with
some unique insight and then actually
you you you kind of reframe them to
think about the problem in a different
way the problem behind the problem and
then you drown them rationally with
facts about how bad it is and then help
give them a solution
um you know there are corporate Visions
Tim ristora has a great approach on kind
of asking the three wise why change why
now why your company and again it's
digging for the problem underneath the
problem so I think there are a few
things that are common amongst all of
these the first thing is that there's a
definition of this Preferred Future that
we want to go after and I do think
that's some that's very many companies
fall down they don't actually have a
compelling vision of where that customer
should be where that Prospect should be
if all of these things went right and
they don't have the cost of that going
wrong
um the biggest the biggest uh reason for
losing a deal is losing to the status
quo it's not losing to a competitor it's
losing to what they're currently doing
and so as part of that process you've
got to establish why the status quo is
untenable is unsafe is costly
um and and then part of that journey is
then helping reframe so firstly is there
a preferred future is is the status quo
costly and then what is that reframe how
are you helping them see the the problem
from a different perspective that lines
you up as the potential option so those
are the three elements of all of those
Frameworks I think sometimes people miss
yeah
it's a great summary
and in terms of actually building out
that Preferred Future state do you think
that your existing customers are the
best people to get that Intel from or
should you have their own that vision
yourself as uh I know the founding of
the marketing team or whoever's working
on that messaging
yeah I mean it's definitely a blend of
both you know the classic the classic
quote of if I'd ask my customers that
I'd have built a faster horse
um I do I do think there's a bit of both
that has to come to play
um but you
as you go through the process of scaling
a business going back to your Market to
understand unique and updated Insight
from them is really really critical I
think there's a real danger where
there's a Founder Insight that forms the
future of your business and then you
don't ground that in customer reality on
a regular basis it can become you know
you can go off-piste very very quickly
yeah it's easily done though and uh so
certainly myself
um
yeah yeah no doubt nice one
um all right I think you've got one last
pillar of the GTM strategy for us
well I think once you're getting to
scale then it's about optimizing um it's
about thinking about measurement
Frameworks it's about hiring it's about
making sure that you can cope with
multiple products so once you get to any
element of scale so you've got some
customers you really need to think about
the different elements of your business
and what I mean here is you know there
are three key levers you can pull there
are you know there's new customer
acquisition so getting new customers on
board there's the monetization of all of
your customers so that's pricing and
packaging and how many things products
add-ons you can sell them and then
there's expansion so reducing your churn
increasing your lifetime your your
length of uh length of customer and then
improving the money you're getting off
them by selling them cross-sell upsell
Etc and so thinking through all three of
those lenses is really important
um and and particularly when we you know
we as part of our an output of our
business we track core metrics across 30
000 different subscription software
companies so we've got probably the
biggest data set on on growth here and
we do see
um that by the time you get to any level
of scale the best companies that are
growing the fastest have more than 20
percent of their new Revenue coming from
their existing install base by selling
them different add-ons and an upsell
whether that's increased volume Etc we
do see that multi-product companies have
between 30 and 50 higher growth rates so
when you get to any level of scale
having other things you can sell the
same customer is really critical and
your lifetime value increases
significantly from those adults and so
you know balancing all of these
different ways of driving monetization
from your existing and new customers is
really critical and then it's about
thinking where else you can go as a
business so yes we can get new customers
we can get more of our existing
customers we can change pricing and
packaging but should we be moving into
new markets do we need to be expanding
internationally should we be moving up
Market to serve larger customers and
grow our annual contract value we should
be moving down Market to scale
self-serve and and go to users or
individuals and then you know back to
the product questioner are there other
ancillary products we can build or buy
or acquire in order to drive higher
average
my customer so those are a range of
questions that then you start to battle
you have to battle with as you grow in
order to manage that go to market yeah
and it is a battle
um especially knowing like where I
suppose it all depends on the size of
your team and resource ultimately
um on where you assign time and resource
when it comes to looking after existing
customers offering them new products new
services and likewise hunting down new
business and how much of the team's time
and resources is set into that which
was where it gets tricky I suppose
it is but
the necessity for growth means that we
tend to always invest in new business
rather than focusing on that existing
pool of business which it is almost
always easier to upsell a happy customer
to something new from you than is to go
with a new customer
um and you know we've all been in
scenarios where we've had a leaky funnel
where we've got people in the door and
they churn after three months or 12
months and then that puts a huge
pressure on winning new customers just
to stay even so you know although the
bias that most Founders is to go and
acquire new customers all the time
fixing that funnel and making sure there
are there is significant lifetime value
from your existing base and you're
driving new revenue from your existing
base I think should be the first
priority because that serves you from
now and into the future
what are some of the most common reasons
you've seen in B2B tech companies for
customers churning
wow um so
um you know we actually have a product
that helps um automatically reduce churn
there's a product called retain and so
there are a whole bunch of retention
specialists in our business that can
talk about this in in great depth
um you could talk about it firstly you
divide it into two things one that is
often not talked about voluntary
churning involuntary churn so
involuntary churn is the fact that
someone hasn't necessarily made a choice
to cancel they've actually just their
credit card details have expired or you
know payment details have expired
um and in a sales example maybe it's the
person who bought it left Etc and so
you've got to deal with those first and
we've got a whole bunch of products that
help people deal with involuntary churn
then when it comes to voluntary churn
um there there are a bunch of reasons
usually it will be something around you
know the value that is received or the
usage that they are seeing within the
business although we've just gone
through a significant
um you know in the SAS space whether we
want to technically call it a recession
or not
um you know in the SAS space a
contraction and a significant reduction
in capital and lots of people going
through layoffs and we've seen that in
our core data set in our core numbers
this 20 30 billion of ARR that we track
within one of our products
um and we've seen an increase in churn
firstly in the consumer side and d2c and
then in the business to business side as
well
um and you know that that sometimes
isn't about value and it isn't about
usage it's sometimes just about the the
that all those businesses needing to
right size their p l and therefore cut
things that are perhaps candy floss or
vitamins rather than painkillers
um and so involuntary sure and so
involuntary churn then within voluntary
churn there are a bunch of things you
can do there as well early warning signs
over usage early warning signs over
relationships I think getting on a play
and going visiting your customers this
is one of the best leading indicators of
a good you know renewal Point retention
um but then there's also it's about
making sure you're managing the process
of cancellation well so when someone
hits cancel in a dashboard you've got
something of like 18 seconds to get
information off them or to try and
change their mind and so that's another
piece that that product does is walk you
through you know do you want to
downgrade you want to go on a lower plan
do you really want to lose all of your
data are there other ways that we can
save you through this process even if
we're lowering our customer Revenue to
make sure you stay accustomed
nice yeah yeah some nice tips especially
the involuntary I mean what you don't
know you don't know I suppose and like
unless you start tracking measuring and
understanding these things properly
you could be losing a heck of a lot of
Revenue that you it's just going out the
door and you're not aware why yeah I
mean your summarizing really well kind
of outcall narrative as a business which
is you know we believe that the SAS
Founders we're selling we're selling to
a paddle that they want to focus on
their product their customer and their
team and they don't want to focus on
global sales tax compliance or on
payment acceptance rates in every single
region or currency management or all
those things that we take care of but
you know even before we get to the
retention issue payment acceptance is a
big a big issue like one of the one of
the biggest use cases we serve is if
you're a business that's selling just in
dollars but you're seeing a bunch of
traffic from outside the US you are not
acquiring as many customers as you could
because you're not adopting to
willingness to pay best practice to
local currency into local payment
methods
um and so there's a whole bunch of
things we can do there to help you
automatically grow your revenue from
that International user base yeah yeah
yeah good stuff Andrew very very much
appreciate your time appreciate you
walking through the GTM framework that
we've laid out today and has been it's
been an enjoyable back and forth so with
that said please do tell everyone that's
tuned in more about your company how
people can learn from you and anyway
you'd like to direct our audience
yeah totally well we would love to meet
you at any of the events that we um we
host or sponsor
um we'll be in a city near you as well
as at SAS talk and sasta
um you can find us online I'm on
LinkedIn please grab me there and we're
at paddle.com and really if you're a
software founder or a go to market
leader who is trying to sell everywhere
in the world and doesn't want to deal
with all of the tax fraud subscription
management and other Financial
complexities we just take all of that
away from you we've got a payment
infrastructure where we just take a
portion of each transaction and solve
that all for you we've got a retention
product that automatically helps you
reduce churn and we've got a pricing
product that helps you build better
pricing and packaging um so that you can
get more money off your customers so all
of that at paddle.com and we've also got
a really good media team we're investing
in shows and documentaries about SAS
growth and there's the we we cut a
documentary about the acquisition we did
last year with a with an award-winning
independent documentary filmmaker so
there's loads of good content on
paddle.com and on our YouTube channels
Legend and we'll put all of those links
over at businessgrowth dot marketing
Andrew what I've applaud you there as
well normally when I ask guests to to
give a idea of where to send the
audience they don't lead with a problem
they fix whereas you did that perfectly
um which I do as well when I guest on
shows and uh yeah that's hat tip to you
there sir so yeah we'll we'll direct the
audience all of those links thanks once
again for coming on as always if you
enjoyed today's episode a quick rating
or review on your podcast Channel goes a
long way and we'll catch you on the next
one for more no BS actionable B2
marketing tips to grow your business and
bottom line catch you soon